The President:
Hi everybody.
Today, I'm at Del Sol High
School, in Las Vegas,
to talk with students and
families about immigration.
We are a nation of
immigrants.
It has always given
America a big advantage
over other nations.
It keeps our country young,
dynamic, and entrepreneurial.
But today, our immigration
system is broken,
and everybody knows it.
That's why, nearly
two years ago, I came
to this school and
laid out principles
for immigration reform.
And five months later,
Democrats, Republicans,
and Independents in the
Senate came together
to pass a commonsense
compromise bill.
That bill would have
secured our border,
while giving undocumented
immigrants who already
live here a pathway to
citizenship if they
paid a fine, started
paying their taxes,
and went to the back
of the line.
Independent experts
said it would grow
our economy, and
shrink our deficits.
Now, had the House of
Representatives allowed
a yes-or-no vote on
that kind of bill,
it would have passed with
support from both parties.
Today it would be the law.
But for a year and a
half, Republican leaders
in the House have refused to
allow that simple vote.
Now, I still believe that
the best way to solve this
problem is by working
together -- both parties --
to pass that kind
of bipartisan law.
But until that happens,
there are actions I have
the legal authority to
take as President --
the same kinds of actions
taken by Democratic
and Republican
Presidents before me --
that will help make
our immigration system
more fair and more just.
I took those actions
this week.
We're providing more
resources at the border
to help law enforcement
personnel stop
illegal crossings, and
send home those who
do cross over.
We'll focus enforcement
resources on people who
are threats to our security
-- felons, not families;
criminals, not children.
And we'll bring more
undocumented immigrants
out of the shadows so they
can play by the rules,
pay their full share of taxes,
pass a criminal background
check, and get
right with the law.
Nothing about this action
will benefit anyone who
has come to this country
recently, or who might try
and come to America
illegally in the future.
It does not grant citizenship,
or the right to stay here
permanently, or offer
the same benefits
that citizens receive.
And it's certainly
not amnesty,
no matter how often
the critics say it.
Amnesty is the immigration
system we have today --
millions of people living
here without paying
their taxes, or
playing by the rules.
And the actions I took
this week will finally
start fixing that.
As you might have heard,
there are Members
of Congress who question
my authority to make
our immigration
system work better.
Well, I have one answer
for that: Pass a bill.
The day I sign it into law,
the actions I've taken
to help solve this problem
will no longer be necessary.
In the meantime, we can't
allow a disagreement over
a single issue to be a
dealbreaker on every issue.
That's not how our
democracy works.
This debate deserves more
than politics as usual.
It's important
for our future.
It's about who we
are, and the future
we want to build.
We are only here because
this country welcomed
our forebears, and taught
them that being American
is about more than what
we look like or where
we come from.
What makes us Americans
is our shared commitment
to an ideal -- that all
of us are created equal,
and all of us have the
chance to make of our
lives what we will.
That's the country we
inherited, and it's
the one we have to leave
for future generations.
Thank you, God bless you,
and have a great weekend.